[EN] update Stateless Apps (#1731)
cncf/glossary: content/en/stateless-apps.md

## What it is

> A stateless application operates independently of past interactions and user data. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Stateless applications operate independently of past interactions and user session data (referred to as state)
```

> When a user interacts with the application, 

Reviewer: ``
```suggestion
Each session is carried out as if it was the first time, and responses are not dependent upon data from a previous session. 
```

> it processes the request and immediately forgets the information once the request is processed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The application processes the request and immediately "forgets" about it.
```

> This indicates that the application lacks any permanent storage containing information on prior user interactions or data. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In short, stateless apps lack permanent storage. 
Hence state**less**, no state (data) is stored locally.
```

> Each utilization of the application is treated as an isolated session, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> without reference to past interactions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> For instance, consider someone using a search engine to find an answer. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's an example. 
When you use a search engine, and that search is interrupted (e.g., the window is closed), those search results are lost. 
You'll need to start your search again.
```

> If their search is interrupted or the window is closed, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> they must start a new search because there is no saved information from their previous attempt.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

## What it is

Stateless applications process requests as if they were their first. 
The app doesn't "remember" previous interactions or user session data. 
Data from previous interactions is referred to as state, and since that data isn't stored anywhere, these apps are state*less*. 
In short, stateless apps lack permanent storage. 
Here's an example. 
When you use a search engine, and that search is interrupted (e.g., the window is closed), those search results are lost. 
You'll need to start all over.

On the other hand, applications that process requests while considering previous interactions are called [stateful applications](/stateful-apps/). 

## Problem it addresses

When stateful applications, apps that *do* have session data, are horizontally scaled, every instance needs access to that same data.
If one instance processes a request, the other instances must have access to that session data to take it into account when they process the next request. 
And that brings some challenges. 

> All instances would have to somehow sync that session data, which often used to be stored only in-memory of an instance before the rise of the cloud.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, all instances must sync that session data stored *in memory* of the instance that processed the request.
```
I committed your changes, @iamNoah1, but I'm confused by this statement. This sounds like the stateful way is the old way of doing things in a pre-cloud world. Lots of apps are stateful, so I changed the language to be more affirmative ("this is how it is with stateful"), but it's also the case on the cloud, isn't it? We aren't comparing pre-cloud vs cloud, but stateless vs stateless. 

Also edited the other sentences in this section but don't think I changed the meaning.

The app doesn't "remember" previous interactions or user session data. 
Data from previous interactions is referred to as state, and since that data isn't stored anywhere, these apps are state*less*. 
In short, stateless apps lack permanent storage. 
Here's an example. 
When you use a search engine, and that search is interrupted (e.g., the window is closed), those search results are lost. 
You'll need to start all over.

On the other hand, applications that process requests while considering previous interactions are called [stateful applications](/stateful-apps/). 

## Problem it addresses

Stateful applications (applications that *do* save session data) are composed of multiple pods distributed across a [cluster](/cluster/). 
To function correctly, they must be aware of each other. 
If one pod processes a request, the other pods must have access to that data to take it into account when they process the next request. 
That brings some challenges. 
Pods must constantly communicate to ensure they are all in sync for a seamless user experience. 
However, networks are inherently unreliable. Also, session data is lost if there’s a problem and the application restarts. 

> In short, stateful apps are less resilient. 

Reviewer: I assumed that was implied in the first sentence: "Stateless applications tackle the problem of resiliency." Happy to remove if it's not true.

## How it helps

> Put simply, in a stateless application, the cluster is only responsible for the code and some static content hosted on it. 

Reviewer 2: I don't like how we are putting the focus now on the cluster instead of on the stateful app. Also, stateful and statelessness have nothing to do with a cluster or even the way how the application is deployed, per sé. It just says if an application stores data or not, basically. 

On the other hand, it is kind of hard to say how a stateless app helps. While reviewing and editing, I realized that this is maybe more a concept than a technology and the sections: about the problem it solves and how it helps might be not applicable. 

The stateless application helps by just storing no state, no were. But it is not something that can be simply done for every application. Some need to store data and some not. 

I will think more about it in the next few days, but would like to hear other opinions. @idvoretskyi @CathPag @seokho-son @DaveVentura

Reviewer: You are right. This is no different from [tightly coupled](https://glossary.cncf.io/tightly-coupled-architectures/) or [loosely coupled architectures](https://glossary.cncf.io/loosely-coupled-architecture/). It's an architectural decision. How do I build my app?

Reviewer 3: I agree with Noah. It seems a nice technical consideration. 😊

Reviewer 4: In general, I agree with @iamNoah1 

> I don't like how we are putting the focus now on the cluster instead of on the stateful app. Also, stateful and statelessness have nothing to do with a cluster or even the way how the application is deployed, per sé. It just says if an application stores data or not, basically.

I agree. We don't have to introduce about cluster here.

> On the other hand, it is kind of hard to say how a stateless app helps. While reviewing and editing, I realized that this is maybe more a concept than a technology and the sections: about the problem it solves and how it helps might be not applicable.
> 
> The stateless application helps by just storing no state, no were. But it is not something that can be simply done for every application. Some need to store data and some not.

I agree with that utilizing stateless applications or stateful applications is an architectural decision. Both can be helpful according to given requirements or conditions.

I think we can state conditions (best practices?) where stateless application is helpful. (for instance, stateless application is helpful if the application need to handle many short-term requests since it removes overhead in using sessions.)
